= yore

* RubyForge Project : http://rubyforge.org/projects/buzzware
* Author : http://www.buzzware.com.au

== DESCRIPTION:

yore (as in "days of yore") is a data management utility for web applications.
It provides hands-off scheduled backup functions, combines file and database 
data into a single file, knows certain applications, particularly Rails related ones,
and can use Amazon S3 for storage.

== FEATURES/PROBLEMS:

* Compressed, encrypted, single file backups of folders and mysql databases
* Can be called regularly eg. by cron
* Backups can be uploaded to Amazon S3
* will later remove old files that don't match the configurable scheme for backup history,
but keeping a useful history eg. 
- backup every day
- keep 2 weeks of daily backups
- keep 12 weeks of friday backups
- keep the first friday backup of each month forever
* Can automatically collect and compress database all user data from particular applications
to a single file, and restore to another server. Known applications are Rails-centric but others
can be manually configured. 
* Rails database credentials are read from database.yml

Amazon S3

* Yore relies on s3cmd for S3 access which is contained in the s3sync gem.  
s3cmd must be configured with keys for a registered Amazon S3 account.  
Use something like "s3cmd listbuckets" to check that you have that setup 
correctly before launching yore.  

* You can and probably should create a seperate Amazon account for 1 or more web servers, 
and then grant write access to a single bucket for their use, rather than using your main
S3 keys. You don't need to supply your credit card details for this account - your main 
account will be charged. This avoids your main Amazon AWS keys getting stolen by someone 
hacking into the webserver, or even other legitimate users using them.

== SYNOPSIS:

yore [global options] command [command options] [arguments]
eg.
* yore backup yore_config.xml
* cd my_rails_app; yore save --kind=spree data.tgz

== REQUIREMENTS:

* s3sync (http://rubyforge.org/projects/s3sync/)
* RequirePaths (http://rubyforge.org/projects/blackwhitelogin)
* cmdparse (http://cmdparse.rubyforge.org)
* shairontoledo-popen4 (http://github.com/shairontoledo/popen4)
* tar, bzip2, openssl, mysql
* tested on MacOS and Linux

== INSTALL:

 sudo gem sources -a http://gems.github.com
 sudo gem install yore

== LICENSE:

(The MIT License)

Copyright (c) 2009 Gary McGhee, Buzzware Solutions

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
'Software'), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED 'AS IS', WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.